Non-Parametric Test: 

 1. Condition of Parametric Test
    a. Sample Distribution is known  (C.L.T)
    b. Population is normally distributed
    c. Sample Size is sufficiently large (C.L.T only works when sample size is large enough)
    d. Sampling is random and independent
    e. The data has to be interval/ratio scale data 
    f. Pulling from 2 population, the variance needs to be equal
    
 2. Condition of Non-Parametric Test
    a. underlying probability distribution is unknow or non-normal
    b. ordinal or nominal scale data 
    c. central tendency is not mean 
    d. it is also can be used on normally distributed data 
    
    !!!!! If we dont knoe the pop standard error, we use sample STD and t-test
    
 Non-Parametric Tests are not as powerful and as efficient as parametric test. 
 
 Non-parametric test Types: 
 1. Goodness of Fit Tests: 
 
    if the probability distribution of a random variable fits a given theoritical probability distribution 
    Probability of getting 0 or less. 
 
 2. Kolmogorov - Smirnov Test 
 
    sort the sample 1st 
    test the maximum difference (D) between a theoretical Distribution (F(x)) and the sanpling distribution (S(x)).
    H0: D = 0 
    HA: D != 0 
  
  3. Chi-Square test 
  
    compare on observed distribution of nominal scale (Quantitative Data) variables to a theoretical distribution 
    
    H0: X^2 = 0  -> Sample Dist match theoretical Dist 
    HA: X^2 > 0  -> Sample Dist does not match theoretical Dist
    
  4. Kernal Estimation 
  
  
Median Based Test: 
  
  1 sample scenario
  
  step 1: turn variables into a binomial variables where each value is either greater or less than a hypothesized median (m0)
  step 2: sample median (m) is identical to the hypothesized median, proportion of each outcome for the binomial variable is 0.5 
  step 3: Different than 0.5 (m != m0)
  
  2 samples scenario 
  
  Mean-Whitney Test 
  test whether 2 pops have same median 
  H0: mx = my 
  HA: mx != my
  
  Ordinal-scale 
  the sample size donot need to be the same 
  There is no confidence interval for median test 
  
  So we use Bootstrapping
  we treat the samples as population, and then we sample the samples based on the sample's size (n) and repeat process n^n times 
  1. choose confidence inteval 1-a 
  2. bootstrap B values (B > 1000) 
  3. sort B values and find the target reference j (j=(B-a)/2)
  4. Finding the upper limit of confidence interval kth element 
      k = (B(1-a))/2
  
  
