Probability and Smapling 
  
  1. Praobability (0 <= P <= 1)
                
                Statistical Experiment: A process where one outcome from a set of possible outcomes
  
                Elementary Outcome: Each Different Outcome
   
                Sample Space: All of the elementary outcomes 
                 
                Event: A subset of the sample space or a collection of elementary outcomes 
                 
  2. Random Variable - Numerical Function that assigns values to members of a sample space
  
                    A variable that is the outcomes of a statistical experiment.
                    
                    1. Discrete Random Variable 
                    2. Continuous Random Varibale (Hard to get, Need Sample)
                    
                    Population: Total Sets of elements 
                    
                    Sample: A subset of the elements 
                    
                        a. Sampling Error: Uncertainty that arises from working a sample v.s. entire populaion 
                        b. Sampling Bias: When the sampling procedure is not totally random 
                        
                        
                    5 Steps Sampling Procedure: 
                    
                      1. Define the Population 
                      2. Construct Sampling Frame (sample size)
                      3. Select Sampling Design (sampling methods)
                      4. Specify the information to be collect (data types)
                      5. Collect data 
                      
                    Sampels - Probability Sample 
                              a. Simple Random (all elements have equal probabilitis)
                              b. Independent Random ( Independnet with previous selection
                              c. Systematic (Every nth element of sampling is chose, begin with randomly chosen point)
                                 Pros: easier to operationalize 
                                 Cons: Under or Over emphasize periodicities 
                              d. Stratified (Split Pop into several groups and random sample from each group)
                                 Pros: Avoid Bias 
                                       sample is representative 
                                       efficient
                              e. Cluster (split pop into several groups and random sample the groups) 
                                 Pros: Convinience 
                                 Cons: Susceptible to bias 
                                      
                            - non-probaility Sample
                              a. judgemental (Personal judge decide which groups are sampled)
                              b. Convinience (Talking on poeple randomly on street)
                              c. Quota (Interviewers are assigned to a acquair data from certain groups)
                              d. Volunteers (Sample is drawn from PoP self-select away)
                              
                    In Geography:
                            
                            1. Quadrant Sample: Point Sample 
                            2. Transect Sample: A line is made across the space and samples taken across the line (usually continious variables) 
                            3. Point Sampling
                            
                            Sampling Frame (Maps, Grid, Coordinates) 
                            
                    Central Limit Theorem (C.L.T) 
                            
                            Regardless of the distribution of a population for a sufficiently large sample size (n), the distribution of
                            Sampling mean (X_bar) will be approximately normal around the population mean (u) with Sample STD DEV
                            
                            Sample STD_DEV = (POP STD_DEV)/(Square Root of sample size (n))
                       
                        
                            
 
